In terms of length, word count is typically anywhere from to for short stories
however some works classified as short stories have up to words. Stories of
fewer than words are sometimes referred to as short short stories or flash
fiction Short stories have no set length. In terms of word count, there is no
official demarcation between an anecdote, a short story, and a novel. Rather,
the form's parameters are given by the rhetorical and practical context in
which a given story is produced and considered so that what constitutes a short
story may differ between genres, countries, eras, and commentators.Like the
novel, the short story's predominant shape reflects the demands of the
available markets for publication, and the evolution of the form seems closely
tied to the evolution of the publishing industry and the submission guidelines
of its constituent houses.[13]As a point of reference for the genre writer, the
Science Fiction and Fantasy Writers of America define short story length in the
Nebula Awards for science fiction submission guidelines as having fewer than
7,500 wordsShort stories date back to oral storytelling traditions which
originally produced epics such as the Ramayana, the Mahabharata, and Homer's
Iliad and Odyssey. Oral narratives were often told in the form of rhyming or
rhythmic verse, often including recurring sections or, in the case of Homer,
Homeric epithets. Such stylistic devices often acted as mnemonics for easier
recall, rendition, and adaptation of the story. While the overall arc of the
tale was told over the course of several performances, short sections of verse
could focus on individual narratives that were the duration of a single
telling. It may be helpful to classify such sections as oral short
stories.Another ancient form of short story popular during the Roman Empire was
the anecdote, a brief realistic narrative that embodies a point. Many surviving
Roman anecdotes were collected in the 13th or 14th century as the Gesta
Romanorum. Anecdotes remained popular throughout Europe well into the 18th
century with the publication of the fictional anecdotal letters of Sir Roger de
Coverley.In India, there is a rich heritage of ancient folktales as well as a
compiled body of short fiction which shaped the sensibility of modern Indian
short story. Some of the famous Sanskrit collections of legends, folktales,
fairy tales, and fables are Panchatantra, Hitopadesha and Kathasaritsagara.
Jataka tales, originally written in Pali, is a compilation of tales concerning
the previous births of Lord Gautama Buddha. The Frame story, also known as the
frame narrative or story within a story, is a narrative technique that probably
originated in ancient Indian works such as Panchatantra.The evolution of
printing technologies and periodical editions were among the factors
contributing to the increasing importance of short story publications.
Pioneering the rules of the genre in the Western canon were, among others,
Rudyard Kipling (United Kingdom), Anton Chekhov (Russia), Guy de Maupassant
(France), Rabindranath Tagore (India and Bangladesh), Manuel Gutiérrez Nájera
(Mexico) and Rubén Darío (Nicaragua).Early examples of short stories were
published separately between 1790 and 1810, but the first true collections of
short stories appeared between 1810 and 1830 in several countries.[17]The first
short stories in the United Kingdom were gothic tales like Richard Cumberland's
"remarkable narrative", "The Poisoner of Montremos" (1791).[18] Novelists such
as Sir Walter Scott and Charles Dickens also wrote influential short stories
during this time. Germany soon followed the United Kingdom's example by
producing short stories; the first collection of short stories was by Heinrich
von Kleist in 1810 and 1811. In the United States, Washington Irving was
responsible for creating some of the first short stories of American origin,
"The Legend of Sleepy Hollow" and "Rip Van Winkle".[19]
